You know, I hate to be that guy, but
paperclipip and other agent frameworks
where you're controlling an autonomous
swarm of 500 CMOS just don't do
anything. It sounds really futuristic
and it sounds incredible, but at the end
of the day, it's setup porn. Have you
seen these threads on X and and LinkedIn
and now YouTube videos where people are
like, I just set up my paperclip Hermes
agent Maximizer to run my Telegram
topics on Veriz. It's like, first of
all, what the heck are any of these
platforms? And second of all, what have
you actually shipped this week? What
have you actually built? How much money
have you made in the last 30 days by
jerking yourself off with a with an open
claw? That's a good one. The point that
I'm trying to make is it's basically
like organizing markdown files in a
folder. And YouTubers like myself,
people on X and LinkedIn and stuff like
that are all incentivized to make every
one of these new agent frameworks and
developments much bigger than they
actually are. I've tried removing names
and stuff because obviously I don't want
to put anybody on the spot, but check
out this fell. This is the peak
19-year-old experience. He says, "You
know, it's 2:10 a.m. I got three cloud
code terminals on the MacBook, setting
up Hermes and paperclipip on the
monitor, and whisper flowing Hermes
inside of my Telegram topics. What more
could you ask for? This reads like
freaking ancient Egyptian hieroglyphs to
anybody that's actually making money.
What more could I ask for? How about
some MR, little bro? Like, come on. What
are you doing here that's actually
economically valuable?" Or maybe uh this
one here. You know, I really didn't want
to manage a team, so XYZ name redacted
found a solution. Paperclip, the open
source project. What she showed me.
Paperclip leads her agents using its
project management setup. Humans on her
team use it to assign tasks to agents.
Agents delegate tasks to humans or other
agents. Paperclip turns your goals into
agent tasks. It turns an SEO audit into
agent tasks. And finally, it organizes
OpenCloud agents or even creates its own
agents. Can I just get to the real meat
and potatoes of whatever this person's
business is? What are you actually
doing? What is actually like external
facing deliverable here that adds value?
The only thing here out of these six
tasks that is not completely
masturbatory even though it is still
quite masturbatory is it turns an SEO
audit doc for example into agent tasks
like this is just doing project
management for agents. This is just
doing project management for agents.
This is just doing project management
for agents. This is just doing project
management for agents. This is just
organizing some BS tool to do more
project management for some other BS
tools. Like the only thing a client or a
customer would ever actually see is some
sort of SEO audit doc here. And it's not
even doing that. It's just turning that
into a bunch of tasks for agents. I
don't think people realize, but like
clients and customers and and people
that are on the other receiving end of a
business, they don't care how you do
stuff. They only care that the stuff
gets done. Likewise, when I see people
make a mountain out of a molehill like
this, it's like, what are you actually
getting done? And then they're like,
"Well, I actually orchestrated a team of
whatever the hell." I'm like, "Okay,
great. So, um, why didn't you just do
that yourself? It probably would have
taken a hundred times less actual
man-hour than you trying to build this
incredible wrapper around like an SEO
audit doc. And by the way, what the hell
are you doing with an SEO audit dock
anyway, man? It's 2026. Okay, check this
one out. Zero human company install
using paperclip and claude. You know,
this looks really cool. It like, you
know, went relatively viral on X and
whatnot. You have like a little terminal
with, I think, ghostty on the lefth hand
side. Then you have like the actual
paperclipip dashboard. And I mean like I
was like, wow, this is so cool. What are
they actually doing? Have you can you
read this? Hopefully you can. It says uh
community lead agent is defining the
community content and launch strategy.
You know this one's researching and
evaluating community platforms. This one
here is improving the admin dashboard
UX. And this one here is hardening the
assessment pipeline reliability. Like
three out of the four of these are just
[__] You're just shipping and
building stuff that like helps you ship
and build stuff. You're not actually
shipping and building anything. For
instance, research and evaluate
community platforms. I mean like that's
just a Google search, man. Shouldn't
you, as somebody that's about to like
start a whole business or community on
this thing, build with AI, return my
time, whatever the heck, shouldn't you
just make that decision on your end?
Improving the admin dashboard UX? Oh,
I'm sorry. Is paperclipip not good
enough for you? So, you're going to make
your paperclip dashboard better so that
you can make your paperclipip dashboard
better? How about hardening your
assessment pipeline reliability?
Guarantee you this is some assessment
that you know other agents are going to
use to assess the quality of the
deliverables or something. Like one out
of the four things here are actually
probably moving a needle in some way.
And it's something that realistically
like this fella should not actually be
having an agent do. You should just like
sit down and think about it for five
minutes. He'd do way more. Okay, I got
like another standout one here. Day two
out of 30 trying to make viral videos on
TikTok with Paperclip. Paperclip started
and it's already conducted research with
Verlo to identify trends in the fitness
industry. Then it researches some
websites on Reddit and Hacker News. The
main bottleneck though is agent- media.
I'm not sure if it can create good
enough videos yet. Sometimes the simple
videos work better than complicated
ones. Then everything is scheduled and
post is. Sometimes I'll add the the
Larry skill. Let me know if there's any
other service that I need to connect to
paperclip cuz that's obviously your
bottleneck, bro. It's like what is this
thing doing? It's just doing research
with Verlow, Reddit, Hacker News, and
scheduling and posters.
The only thing that matters when you
make videos is are your videos good? Why
are you like spending 99% of your time
around stuff that is not about the main
thing? just like make the main thing the
main thing. Just figure out if you can
make good quality videos first. Let me
tell you, I could have a quadrillion AI
agents churning in the background, but I
wouldn't be able to create the sorts of
videos that I create today because at
the end of the day, like I am the
bottleneck and just like this fella is
the bottleneck. He's currently not
really realizing that. So instead, he's
trying to do everything possible not to
do the work that actually needs doing.
You know what? All this reminds me of
this just generational meme where you
have a simpleton on the lefth hand side
and what tool does he use to get his
stuff done? Apple notes. You have this
sort of like median average fell over
here and what tool does does he think he
needs? He thinks he needs readwise and
an quizlet and Adobe Acrobat and notion
and a bajillion other tools. But then
what does like really brilliant like
person that actually moves the needle
need? Just you know Apple notes. The
point that I'm trying to make is it's
never the tool. It's just how you use
the tool. And so in the case of
paperclip which is just so fundamentally
misaligned in terms of ag and capability
and then like what human beings can do
that it's not even really worth talking
about although I will talk about in a
second the only thing that you actually
need in order to get something done is
is really just the space between your
two ears. And this is somebody this is
from somebody that like I I I work with
AI on a daily basis. I sell AI on a
daily basis. I I I make money teaching
people AI. It is not in my best interest
to talk about models and frameworks like
this. But the reality is you do not need
models and frameworks in order to do
things. You just need like a healthy
dose of gumption and high agency to go
and actually do the thing yourself, not
delegate it off to a quadrillion agents.
The last point I'll make on this is I
don't know if anybody remembers this
hilarious exchange between Parag Agural.
He was I think the former CEO of Twitter
or something like that and then Elon
Musk right before he purchased it. Parag
clearly is in rage mode over here.
sends like a 10line message and you know
if you go back further there's a lot of
these sorts of exchanges between the two
and Elon just cuts straight to the meat
and potatoes of it which is just what
did you get done this week? So anytime I
have anybody be like Nick why aren't you
using paperclip or Opus Maximizer? Why
aren't you using Ventro to manage your
Telegram topics? It's like what did he
actually get done this week? How much
money have you actually made? If you
look around at the people that are
actually out there billing the largest
amounts, uh people that are actually
like moving the needle in whatever
substantive way, shape, or form, of
course, they use these tools, but the
tools aren't the main thing. They're
tools, right? You use the tool. You
don't let the tool use you. And
unfortunately, I think some of our
tools, like social media, for instance,
are now at the point where they're very
clearly using and abusing probably some
of the less capable among us for nothing
more than just like internet hype points
and clicks. There's so many problems
with stuff like this, it's not even
funny. I mean, why would you organize an
AI company the same way that you would
organize a human company? You're
borrowing an organizational hierarchy
chart or framework from a 100 years ago.
We've been organizing companies in this
way because like it or not, that just
tends to be the way that human beings do
good. We have some sort of centralized
power, right? CEO that delegates to a
few other centralized powers, CMOs,
CTO's, COOs. Those in turn delegate and
so on and so forth. But whether it's
like a consequence of um you know our
internal Dunbar numbers or just like how
much management load every individual
person could take on you know human
companies tend to look very very similar
as you get bigger. There's no
fundamental reason why an AI company has
to look like that. There's no reason why
you have to have an AI CEO delegating to
an AI COO and an AI CTO who delegates to
their own sub agents. You're just
attempting to fit this concept of an AI
company in a shape that we are all very
familiar with which is obviously that of
a human company. An actual extremely
efficiently organized AI company would
look nothing like this. AI intelligences
are really spiky. They are vastly more
parallelizable and they can also do
specific tightly scoped tasks thousands
of times faster than human beings can
because of these very very big
differences. There's no reason why you'd
want like one, you know, senior
developer agent doing a task.
Realistically, you'd want to spin up 50
of them. Have all 50 of them produce the
same deliverable with minor differences.
calculate the mode, the median, figure
out the average things, the outliers,
collapse those into some, you know,
formal description of what the thing is
that they just made, and then like, you
know, create it with all of this
information in mind. Human beings, on
the other hand, are fantastic at like
zeroot tasks. Uh, have you guys seen ARC
AGI 3? That's the the new like AGI
benchmark essentially. AI freaking blows
at the ability to do things long-term in
a reliable manner. Human beings are kind
of like sniper rifles right now. It's
almost like self- adjusting sniper
rifles where the bullets can change
trajectory. We're capable of like
learning on the fly and feeding back
much more effectively at these AI agents
which instead tend to just sort of be
like in a beline trajectory just because
of the nature of our intelligences and
our various task domains and
specializations like the best most
efficient company in the future is not
going to look like the way that human
companies are run today. And anybody
trying to pretend like that is the best
way to do things or it's some
revolutionary thing. They're just trying
to garner engagement and clicks and a
bunch of other silly stuff that I really
want to talk about right now. So
hopefully what I'm saying here makes
sense and I'm open to, you know,
feedback and some sort of like debate or
argument in the comments. So if you guys
have some interesting points that I
might not have considered, just let me
know down below. My take on all of this
stuff is agent frameworks like this may
eventually get to a point where they're
good, but this paperclip thing and this
theme of organizing, you know, agent
teams the exact same way you'd organize
human teams. This is just like people
looking for some form of engagement. We
saw the same thing with like NADN AI
agents uh I don't know two and a half
years ago or so when it's like my NADN
agent controls my whole life and pleases
my wife. It's like no man it probably
doesn't. It's just a lot of motion but
not a lot of movement if you catch my
drift. All right, have a lovely rest of
the day. PSO out.